DATABASE DESIGN
------------------
1.Requirement Analysis

The first step consists of understanding what data is to be stored in the database.
Then we need to analyse the applications that can be built using this data,the most frequent operations subject to performance
requirements. We need to understand what the user wants from the database. This is basically a process that involves discussions
with the stakeholders. Changes in existing applications using the database or impact on the data due to the new application
requirements are discussed.


2.Conceptual Database Design

Th information gathered in the requirement analysis step is to develop a high-level description of the data to be stored in the
database along with constraints, if any. The ER model is a widely used tool for this purpose. ER modeling is a high-level or semantic data
model used in database design. The goal is to create a simple description of the data that closely matches how the users and developers think of the
data, people and processes that will impact the data.
This design must also facilitate a simple translation to a data model supported by commercial database system. This data model is also called as the
relational model.

3.Logical Database Design

Here we must choose a DBMS to implement our design and convert the conceptual database design into a database schema in the data model of the DBMS.
Thus the task in the logical design step is to convert the ER schema into a relational database schema.

4.Schema Refinement

The fourth step in the database design is to analyse the collection of relations in the relational database schema to identify potential issues and to refine it.
Normalization is an important concept that can help to refine these relations.

5.Physical Database Design

Here we consider expected payloads that our database must support and further refine the database design to ensure that it meets the desired performance
criteria.This step usually involves building indexes on some tables and clustering some tables. It can also involve redesign of the database schema obtained
in steps 3 and 4 above.

6.Application and Security Design

In this step we must consider the other aspects of software that involves DBMS. The roles of each entity involved in every process of the workflow must be analysed and
for each role we must identify parts of the database that must be accessible and non-accessible. The access rules must be enforced in this step.

Apart from the above steps, there might be a database tuning phase where all the six steps are interleaved requiring a repetition of the design.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Entities,Attributes and Entity Sets
--------------------------------------

An entity is an object in the real world that is distinguishable from other objects.
Example: Manager in the retail store, address of the bank employee.
A collection of similar entities is called an entity set.
Two or more entity sets can be combined to form a larger entity set.
For example, employees of the retail store and the employees of the operations team can be combined to form an entity set of employees that represent
a small-scale retail business company.

An entity is often described using a set of attributes. An entities in a given entity set have the same attributes. The more the number of attributes we have, the
greater is the detail available for us to represent information about the entity.

Please refer to the figure 2.1 (2_1.png)
It describes the entity Employee as a rectangle having three attributes - Aadhar (a 12-digit unique random number issued to the residents
of India by the authority UIDAI), name (full name of the employee) and dob (date of birth).
Each employee in the employee entity set will have these three attributes. Each attribute is represented by an oval.
We could also have included gender as the fourth attribute but we have ignored it as of now.

For each attribute associated with an entity set, we must identify a domain of possible values. For example, the attribute Aadhar is a 12-digit unique string of characters -
a mix of English uppercase alphabets and digits. The attribute name of the employee can be defined as a set of 25-character strings.
For each entity we choose a key. A key is a minimal set of attributes whose values uniquely identify an entity in a set. Each attribute in the primary key is underlined.
Here Aadhar is the key.





